# :biking_man: Capital Bikeshare: Bike-Sharing Dashboard & Analysis
## :page_with_curl: About Dataset
Dataset contains the hourly and daily count of rental bikes between the years 2011 and 2012 in the Capital bike share system with the corresponding weather and seasonal information.
Data Set Information:
Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and return back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental and health issues.

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.

## **:bar_chart: Analysis**
**Defining Question**
1. How does the time of day influence bike-sharing ride usage?
2. What are the trends in bike-sharing rides across different days of the week?
3. How does bike-sharing usage vary by month?
4. Do weather and seasonal changes impact bike-share ridership?

**Insight and Findings**
1. The analysis indicates that registered bike-share users primarily use the service for commuting during peak hours in the morning and evening, while casual users demonstrate greater flexibility in their usage throughout the day, particularly enjoying rides during daylight hours until early evening.
2. The data reveals a notable distinction in bike-share usage between casual and registered users, with registered users showing peak usage on Fridays and casual users on Sundays, suggesting that many casual users utilize the service for city exploration during the weekend.
3. The analysis indicates that bike-sharing rides are heavily utilized in June and September, but there is a noticeable decline starting in October, reaching the lowest point in January, before rising again in February, suggesting that seasonal changes significantly influence usage patterns for both casual and registered users.
4. The analysis demonstrates that weather conditions significantly impact the number of bike-share rides, with notable reductions during heavy rain compared to pleasant weather, and a clear seasonal pattern where bike-share usage peaks in the summer and is at its lowest in the winter.

## **:gear: Run this Project on Local**
1. **Clone the repository**
```bash
  git clone https://github.com/andhikaprimaditama22/Dicoding-Capital-Bike-Sharing-Analysis.git
```
2. **Install Dependencies**
```bash
  pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. **Run Dashboard**
```bash
  cd dashboard
  streamlit run dashboard.py
```
Or you can directly visit the dashboard on streamlit on this link: https://capital-bike-sharing-dashboard-andhika.streamlit.app/
